hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstay.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode I chat with
Graven press co-founder of geoweb geoweb
is a fair property rights system that
creates a global consensus for anchoring
digital media to physical locations it
is an open source public good
infrastructure designed to create
augmented shared reality the project has
been in development since 2020 and
recently went live on optimism mainnet
allowing users to bid on Parcels of land
in this conversation Graven and I talk
about non-technical roles in
tech-oriented startups how local
blockchain communities can Empower new
industry entrants get coin grants rounds
the melding of information sharing and
open geospatial networks how geoweb
intends to evolve over time use cases
for the platform and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Craven and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
grave impressed the co-founder of geoweb
how are you doing today Graven I'm
excellent how are you doing Dylan I'm
doing great we are currently bracing for
snowpocalypse I don't know if if you're
ready for that or not I I hadn't looked
ahead but Colorado will do that to you
sometimes you're not paying attention
yeah so Graven is the co-founder of
geoweb and before we get into your
background and what geoweb is and some
of the uh events that we've met at in
Colorado I just want to hear a little
bit about the first time you heard about
Bitcoin or ethereum or cryptocurrency
when was that and what were your initial
thoughts yeah I think it was 2011. I was
working in management consulting at the
time
um working on a big project a lot of
young people it was my first job out of
college and uh some of my friends were
very online reading all the time and it
came across someone one of my more
libertarian leading friends talked to me
about it showed it to me and I think the
time at the time I was talking about
like a bubble at like 30 or something so
I didn't unfortunately take the leap
then but it always kind of been in the
back of my mind as a tech leaning person
and yeah really started getting into it
a couple years later yeah I don't think
anybody really jumped into the deep end
the first time they stumbled on
cryptocurrencies or even really tried to
grok it I remember the first time I had
heard about Bitcoin which was the first
crypto I'd ever heard of I just kind of
took a look at it and you know decided
it it wasn't quite me and I wasn't ready
to to delve into the tech stack or
anything like that yeah but you're no
stranger to decentralized networks or
blockchain or crypto or web3 or whatever
we want to call it these days one of
your first companies is it neolabs nio
Labs Neil Labs yeah neolabs yeah that
was focused on iot the internet of
things and in my research I found that
it was founded in 2014 so it sounds like
while you heard about cryptocurrencies
within their very first few years uh you
kind of took the leap relatively early
in the development of the blockchain
space yeah there was there was actually
any blockchain interaction with Neo at
all um it was iot focused it was more of
a like a traditional web development or
not web development it was actually just
a development platform for Edge
Computing connecting a whole bunch of
devices having data move through and
start to actually create visualizations
and do all sorts of stuff like that
while I was there I did start to like on
the side learn a lot more about
cryptocurrencies blockchains some really
smart employees there actually helped me
along that Journey was there any sort of
overlap between iot and kind of
decentralized networks did anything kind
of lead you into the next PATH of your
career Journey yeah like I mentioned I I
it was starting to get Buzzy at that
time blockchains and that sort of thing
and so naturally there was like some
discussions of should we what should we
be thinking about strategically like is
is there any any value there we were
focused on edge computing and so that
that is a creating like distributed
networks but not like distributed
ledgers but it was more about just
putting compute in different places so
it can act on it and so while we started
looking at blockchain and those sorts of
things from like a strategic perspective
there that's actually where I started to
like really graph what the value was
um and what what it could be it didn't
necessarily fit with our angle at that
time but it planted the seed for me to
come back to later yeah because 2014 was
still kind of ethereum's white paper era
it hadn't really launched let alone had
smart contract platform become a word
that is ubiquitous and synonymous with
cryptocurrency networks today yeah for
sure yeah it was it was the early stages
and I'm not a developer either so it's
like there were some hurdles to getting
into it I think people started to well
maybe they listened to other people that
they trusted and said oh yes there's
there's a there there but I don't think
people had really well definitely hadn't
executed it yet but even in like the
idea phases people are still just what
does this even mean what's it going to
do yeah and I myself am not a developer
either so I'm always curious to speak
with folks who are in the web 3 space
that's what we'll call it today so what
have kind of been your roles at these
very technical sounding companies that
you've worked for you yourself not being
like a quote unquote technical person
yeah once I made the leap into like
startup land well I guess I'll start
mostly up in developer Jason working at
the intersection between what the
business logic and the and maybe the
client needs and then translating and
re-translating back and forth between
developers and engineers and the client
so I've managed those sorts of teams I
started that with my history and
Consulting and then as I got into the
startup world it was Jack of all trades
sort of thing doing whatever was
necessary but I've always enjoyed
working on the technical side being
engaged with the product and I guess as
I left Consulting one of the the driving
forces there was of ownership of a
product long term and so that's really
continued into my journey in web3 I just
tried to to learn as much as possible
I've gotten a little bit more and more
technical as as the years have gone on
but really always I think where I I can
add value is on kind of the the system
side understanding maybe how the pieces
fit together maybe not the exact code
but what are those implications and how
do we actually design that system to do
full things right on so we met at a
crypto Rado Community Meetup and I like
to take every opportunity I can not just
on the smart economy podcast but but
when chatting with anyone in the
blockchain and crypto space to kind of
share the merits of the Colorado
blockchain Community you know hashtag
Show Colorado
so when did you get involved with local
community groups here in Colorado and
what sort of your role with any of the
groups that you participate in yeah so I
I probably attended like a first walking
meet up and it would have been
cryptorado maybe in like 2018 or
something like that but in 2019 when I
left the previous startup and I knew
that I wanted to go full time into the
web 3 blockchain world I started going
to the crypto Auto meetups consistently
and that was a big part of my on-ramp to
the world like I mentioned not a
developer there's always kind of that in
back of mind like how am I going to get
a job how am I going to do anything if I
can't code but by going to crypto Auto
meetings and listening absorbing
information meeting other people hearing
about stuff just naturally start to
build up confidence and a knowledge base
where as a non-developer hopefully I can
contribute in interesting ways and so
I'm deeply grateful to Dan Shields and
all the people that have put in
volunteer time for cryptorado because
it's a big part of my story and so when
we came out of the pandemic after have
like we were still doing virtual meetups
and stuff but obviously not the same but
myself and another crypto Auto member
Taylor Kendall decided we wanted to
start meeting up for beers again this is
sort of happy hour and we're both with
wet dream space we're like why not turn
this into a cryptorado Event open up the
doors and people started showing up
again people were excited to get back
out into the world and so uh continue to
do that every other Thursday meet up
have some good beers at seed stock shout
out to them for being great hosts and uh
putting up with all the crypto nerds
that come in and take over and then also
in being a Denver resident Keith Denver
has been in my backyard and it's
extremely lucky and for that that has
also been a part of my online ramp to
full-time crypto and last year uh
started volunteering as a steward for
youth Denver as well trying to pay it
forward create educational content was
focused on Biddle week we'll be doing
something similar this year yeah shout
out to Dan shout out to Taylor I love
seedstock it's not too far from where I
rest my head and that was actually where
we got to run into one another and
actually that was the first event that I
went to after the pandemic took effect I
think we we actually ran into each other
last year for the first time and then
reignited the conversation at a recent
event which was really cool because that
was the first time since kind of like
the 2019 era when there were a lot of
meetups going on that was the first
event that I'd seen like 30 plus people
at which was really cool it kind of felt
like at last month's event like we're
back people are interested did a lot of
familiar faces stuck around a lot of new
faces were showing up and they were
asking really engaging questions and
they were really interested in space and
the various different asset classes
within crypto so it was really
refreshing to kind of see the community
that you guys have been able to Foster
and also to see that you and Taylor are
taking crypto Rado kind of like taking
the torch because it was primarily Dan
Shields before and now it feels like you
guys are opening another Avenue for
people to just have an opportunity to
meet and chat and get to share knowledge
with one another which is really cool so
I think that's awesome yeah Dan is
definitely the Godfather of cryptorado
put in an ungodly amount of time
previously and he's still very committed
in doing his thing but yeah he also
wanted to decentralize and get other
people involved so Taylor and I and now
there's crypto Mondays which Rowdy and
launch ninja are typically run there's
red Alex Colin there's slitty deep Dives
there's there's all sorts of people so
it starts with just creating a space
where some like-minded people can start
debating sharing ideas getting inspired
and then let people do their thing and
so it really has become a community
effort there's too many events to
actually go to per week now for me
um but uh that's a good thing and I
think there's just not just like social
hours but then like the solidity deep
Dives where people are actually getting
the real code then there's maybe like
101 type courses so a lot of great stuff
happening in Colorado and the thing I
appreciate most about the community here
is that it's not just all trading and
when when Moon and how am I going to
make all the money it's like people are
principled they have reasons for being
here they're intellectually curious sure
everyone occasionally trade some coins
but yeah I'm curious if you've seen mean
like a story arc of somebody who you met
a year or so ago and has launched a
project if you've seen anything locally
like that because I was able in the
research that I did into geoweb kind of
could create a a sort of colorado-esque
story arc but before I I dig into that
I'm just curious to hear if you've seen
anybody kind of launch a project as a
result of meeting other folks in the
community for sure there's been people
that have gotten grants from the EF
there's been a lot of like excitement
there's actually maybe two or three
projects that are like zero knowledge
proof focused and I'm not sure if I I
would chalk that up to crypto Rado but I
met these people before those things had
fallen into place and then they talked
about going and getting Grant they got a
grant and they started executing so
that's that's super awesome
um some different nft projects a lot of
people are come to cryptorado first they
have a web two job they've heard things
and they want to talk to some real
people and start to figure it out and
those people have successfully landed
jobs in web 3 and started doing all
sorts of awesome stuff yeah I'd just
like to really highlight that because I
feel like you where I just stumbled my
way in the dark around trying to grok
blockchain and eventually escaped a
previous career that it was unsatisfied
in and landed here four and a half years
ago and it's just been a super awesome
Journey for me and the Colorado
connections have also been really
fulfilling another thing that I've
noticed with geoweb is that there was an
initial burst of support from another
Colorado somewhat local entity git coin
so I'm curious to hear what was the
process like with Git coin what was the
fundraising process like uh operating
through that Community Dao and what does
that sort of relationship look like
right now we wouldn't still be working
on the geoeb if it wasn't for Bitcoin
and that that's like not hyperbole
because we've always wanted to run the
geoeb as a public good and yeah you can
write Grant after Grant but um we were
very lucky to maybe through kind of
local connections I think actually
through cryptorados the first time I I
heard about git coin and we spun up a
grant pretty early I think maybe Grant
round six or seven was probably the
first one so it's been a while and we
were a part of actually a git coin
program called Apollo which was kind of
uh they have a different a kernel was
the original they had a like a kind of a
incubator cohort sort of thing where
they're teaching people about principles
connecting people doing doing some
hacking and then they did kernel zero
and then they did Apollo which was a
program that they partnered with ipfs
filecoin protocol Labs on and since we
on the geoweb at that time and still do
use the protocol Labs sort of Suite we
got into that program and started that's
when we really started building the geof
and so they also had a git coin Grant
round that they were sponsoring so we
entered that got some great momentum we
were one of the top projects in there
within that cohort and then as I got
more into it uh I guess we kind of just
hustled our way to getting support but I
don't think we've ever necessarily been
good at Mass marketing but when we tell
people about what we're doing and get
them one-on-one we can get them engaged
so it really started one by one getting
contributions and once once you get a
few contributions that's the social
proof people maybe take a little more
time maybe they're just seeing a nice
little match
matching uh for Their donation and so
we've been able to keep that momentum
and continue to do Bitcoin grants to
this day and that's basically been our
funding uh we also gotten a grant from
the filecoin foundation so again shout
out to the folks over there but this has
been bootstrapped with the support of
gitcline we've had over 14 000
individual contributors to our grant
over the the time we've been working on
this wow that's awesome to hear that's
totally Grassroots and amazing that
you've been able to amass that amount of
support without mass marketing but like
the message of geoweb it just hits I
remember when I met you uh last year I
was kind of like Blown Away by what you
guys were building and you were still
very much in like Biddle mode I don't
even think there was any web interfaces
that were released yet
um it was all very conceptual but things
were being developed so let's just dig
into this what is geoweb yeah so geof is
a geospatial Information Network can
open geospatial Information Network what
that means is we've created protocols
and in our case it's a system of
property rights that creates consensus
or anchoring digital media to physical
locations so the buzzword we don't use
it all that often metaverse but not the
metaverse that you're experiencing in
isolation on a computer screen or a VR
headset we're trying to take the digital
world to the real world and with
augmented reality the idea that you can
create all sorts of physics bending
experiences but it's still real life
it's shared at a concert it's with your
friends at a bar it's it's all those
things
um so you can kind of get the best of
both worlds yeah and we recently you
showed me a me and uh others at the a
recent crypto Auto event just like a
small example of how geoweb can be used
and you yourself own the parcel where
seedstock is and there was I think like
an astronaut walking around or something
like that when you were moving your
phone around and we got to see the
augmented reality yeah so the first test
net I own it on testnet it's not the
real thing yet and for this reason to be
able to show this stuff off and so
there's a couple tools that I can kind
of set the table with the the first is
the interface that we have for claiming
land and Publishing content to it we
call that the catastro it's a map based
interface so I think just Google Maps or
whatever your favorite mapping tool is
but the interactivity instead of just
viewing is a claiming sort of read write
experience and so you can define a
parcel I defined the space around seed
stock and then I started uploading
content to it I linked their website so
you can just see their menu their story
all that that sort of stuff and then
some very simple augmented reality
things and so we are still early in that
that development of use cases and all
that we've been hyper focused on the
platform I would say like like our
vision is
there's lots of AR apps that exist
already but they all exist in isolation
and so what we're trying to create is a
continuous coherent experience where you
don't need to download the seed Stock
app to go see the content at seedstock
you have your browser it's a web browser
but it's spatial it uses geospatial
information to resolve content for you
rather than a URL and so that's actually
up and working and so since we were in
seed stock and I brought up my phone and
it was just it's just a web app where
based off my GPS location they've
resolved an astronaut that we could see
in augmented reality and uh can you have
like this is just a very Niche question
but can you have like uh the character
that you show off in the app kind of
like change over time so like if I'm at
a bar can my character start to maybe
get a little more buzzed over time or if
I'm at a gym can my character start to
get buff over time like the more I visit
that location yeah sure I the
possibilities are endless just like the
web uh we take a lot of inspiration from
our architecture from the web so like
what can a web page be it could be
business it could be fun it can be
dynamic it can be static read write
whatever basically we the geoweb's
property right system is kind of like a
DNS but for the real world so what you
choose to link off of that is only
limited by your imagination and then
obviously the the the hardware to
actually pull some of these things off
and then the consensus around the
protocols and like the the linking but
yeah you could have Dynamic content you
can have interactive content but the
main thing we want to create is this
consensus that when you and I are in a
shared place together we're not living
in our own digital worlds we're not
buried in our algae rhythmic feed we can
see the object changing to whatever it
is whatever the rules are set up to be
yeah maybe an example of this would be
like if we're both we don't know each
other but we're both at like a taco shop
and an item on a menu runs out then we
can be part of geoweb and that menu can
be updated in real time to let us both
know that that's not on the table
anymore for us to eat so that's a really
cool sort of use case I know that you
you've already readily mentioned that
this is very early days but what are
some other use cases that you envision
companies or people using geoweb for
yeah there's a couple different threads
that I'll talk about I think the first
one is like a lot of new tech the use
cases start in entertainment for various
reasons but so on the geoeb I think a
lot of things will start with like nft
display augmented reality these
sculptures and that sort of thing where
for various technical reasons we can put
it out there but it's not Mission
critical right and people can still
enjoy and getting a lot of value from it
we could see that really taking off in
like the event space
um whether it's concerts conferences or
uh sporting events any anything like
that where you have a large mass of
people where they're there to be
entertained for the most part and
discover new information and so it could
be a shared experience at a stadium or
it could be at like eat Denver where
someone doesn't really know where
they're going uh they're willing to
explore but like content Discovery is
difficult if you don't know if you're in
a new place and so we really think that
if the geoeb can become a default like
that then no matter what conference you
go to no matter if you're walking down
the street you can discover information
and that can actually not just be
entertainment as you mentioned with like
restaurants and menus and that sort of
thing just pure data it doesn't need to
be fancy it doesn't need to be visually
stunning it can just be like a menu a
PDF a dashboard it could be like as you
go to it like a transit system place you
could see the schedule of the buses or
the trains or whatever if there's
changes there and really what this ends
up starting to become in in that sense
is instead of building displays that
require physical
installation construction materials we
can start to replace those with Purely
Vapor right it's just it's just the bits
and obviously you need to be wearing a
device but we believe the long-term
trends are in that so you can start to
just start replace the atoms of the
world with bits and bytes that are
displayed in your personal display but
still shared with everyone else yeah and
and you're already looking maybe like
five ten years in the future when
everybody's wearing glasses that will
use augmented reality reality but today
we can kind of use our phone so like
would a good example of like how I as
someone who's listening to this and
maybe I want to use geoeb not as a
business but for personal use could I
purchase the lot of land where I live
and then when people come to visit me I
can have them I can put like nfts on uh
geo coordinates like my wall and when
people come into my house they can whip
out their phone go to the geoweb website
and then kind of like look around at the
different walls and see where I've put
nfts up on the wall kind of like uh
framed artwork or anything like that
yeah absolutely we will be specifically
using that use case to push this out I
have a friend that's in real estate
anytime sells a house we're going to
have an AR art installation in the
backyard of the house as a closing gift
that sort of thing but I guess this
might be the opportunity we are going
the gof has been under development for a
long time and the test net works it just
doesn't have the the same sort of
flywheel economic system that we believe
is super important to this working so
we're we're going to be launching the
geoweb it'll turn on with a Dutch
auction a fair launch this Thursday
which I guess will actually by the time
this podcast is released it will already
be live but don't worry because it's a
Dutch auction
um your house isn't going to be taken
from you it will be available likely
unless you're Bill Gates or someone with
like a famous house I don't think
there's going to be much competition for
it so absolutely by the time this
podcast airs we'd encourage you to check
out the geoebcadastra at geoweb.land and
you can explore the world see if
anything's been claimed yet we're
starting with a really high price but
when it comes down and reaches maybe the
minimum you'll be able to claim your
house and start to do those use cases
for sure very cool and what networks
will be supported how will I be able to
purchase a plot of land and yeah so we
are going to be launching on optimism
and only on optimism part of this to go
back to the why the geoweb is being
created is to create this consensus and
so that we can have a shared shared
experiences well it'll be great to
support cross chain and not have to to
pick a winner basically for us it
creates all sorts of technical
complications and you're trying to keep
we need a single Ledger or at least
that's our vision for now as a single
Ledger that is kind of the default layer
and so that needs to live in one place
to minimize delays and all sorts of
technical complications so it'll be on
optimism are land Parcels I should kind
of get into a little bit about the the
economic model at this point is instead
of just selling off the world with the
property rights that were used to where
you own something and no one can force
you to sell it and you you hold it
forever we use a system called partial
common ownership and it's it's free
market that has some rules that help
make it more efficient especially on the
allocation of scarce resources and
create what we think can be a flywheel
for public good so how do your web
Parcels work is you can claim a parcel
anywhere in the world user defined can't
overlap and there's some other
limitations given the the current state
of blockchains but basically when you
claim a parcel you have to set a for
sale price that is callable and so it's
what are you willing to sell this parcel
the natural inclination is well I don't
want to sell it I like this I'll set it
for a million dollars or whatever but
with a partial common ownership system
you have to put your money where your
mouth is basically and so this the smart
contracts that we've built collect what
we call a network fee a 10 Network fee
based off your for sale price and so
that creates a nice balancing incentive
where people can't just claim something
and hold it forever if there's
competition for it and in immediately
people think of well that sounds really
bad for me but like if you just hold off
on jumping to conclusions I think
there's there's a reason for this and
everything in Balance ends up working
out and so yeah we're the web 3 nerds
right now we're trying to build this
system and we're all like super into
this sort of thing there's billions of
people that aren't here yet and if we're
gonna bootstrap a Global Network that
everyone uses we need to acknowledge the
future people that want to adopt this
too and so under a traditional private
property rights system and there are
blockchain based systems that do this
where they sell off sell real real world
land basically it creates incentives for
people to squat on it everyone uh starts
claiming up sports stadiums Times Square
Eiffel Tower all those sorts of things
and those will be attractive places on
the Geo web too but when since we're in
Denver we'll we'll say and power field I
think it is now if some random person
claims in power field in the Denver
Broncos say hey we want to start doing
this metaverse AR thing we want to buy
your land that person is going to say
yeah 10 million or whatever whatever the
ridiculous ask that they can make
because they have Monopoly property
rights over that object and so basically
the Broncos are going to say yeah never
mind we'll just go build our own siled
app and we'll we'll create our
experience and we're not going to pay
you 10 million dollars for it and so you
need things in Balance obviously the
Bronco Stadium could be valuable on the
will be valuable on the Geo web but you
can't just raise it through the roof and
for every every dollar that you raise
the price or in our case e that you
raise the price every way there's a cost
Associated to that and so it creates a
much more efficient market and gets rid
of the squatters problem and in the
meantime the incentives for the person
that are holding land and value it high
are they need to justify their cash I'll
make they have a cash outflow going to
these Network fees so they want to use
it for something productive squatters
don't care it's just an empty parcel of
land that they're hoping to sell to the
next the greater Fool on the geoweb you
constantly need to keep things in
balance and so that actually creates a
better experience that actually would
attract hey if I go to the geoweb world
Blair there's actual useful content
because these people are trying to do
stuff they're trying to create value
with their land because they have a cash
outflow and so that can help start the
network effect that we need to bootstrap
a Global Network where everyone kind of
comes together and yeah it's not in
isolation maybe I don't I I would rather
own something outright but when it all
comes together it can be a net positive
for each one of us and I'll give shout
out to so many inspiration like get coin
and like the public goods and the reason
we chose optimism is because we believe
these things can be a positive sum game
all the money collected through these
Network fees goes towards funding more
public goods and that can also help
accelerate this flywheel yes so let me
just make sure I understood correctly so
if I purchase uh Empower lands plots and
I just say all right Broncos I'm going
to charge you 10 million dollars to buy
this from me does that mean that the 10
stake I need to put up a million dollars
worth of eth in order to be able to say
that's what I'm going to charge that's a
good question and it's actually this is
one of the reasons why the goab is
taking a while we're waiting for the L2
ecosystem to evolve but we also changed
how Network fees were paid initially
like super constrained gas we were doing
a deposit system that would like you
said you'd have to put I think we
originally said like it was on claim you
had to put a Year's worth of network
fees in there but that's really Capital
inefficient and then the smart contracts
would keep track of when that year was
up and you could add money at any time
we actually moved to system of streaming
payments through a protocol called super
fluid the great team there super excited
about that but basically in in our new
system you start a stream that's a way
to conceptualize it of payments you're
paying per second for your network fees
it adds up to 10 per year but it's on a
per second basis and the great thing
with super fluid is it's composable with
all sorts of other things we could have
maybe built a system like this for
ourselves that's kind of what a deposit
based system is but this allows you to
just as long as you keep a it's called a
super token a wrapped version of most
assets so we wrap these into ethics and
as long as you keep ethx in your wallet
and it could be it's kind of like a
checking account it can be used for
multiple things as long as you keep that
balance above zero your streams are
going to continue to be valid and you're
going to be paying your network fees if
you reach zero there are some buffers
and some incentives out there for Bots
to close your stream and in our case
your land parcel would go into a
foreclosure process basically that's
really interesting so then the game
theory is to reduce the squatting on a
ridiculous price that you kind of use an
economic incentive for somebody to
fairly value the plot of land that they
purchased so I'm not going to charge 10
million dollars for the plot of the
Broncos stadium because I'll have to pay
over the year a million dollars in fees
but at the same time I also don't want
to charge a dollar because somebody can
come and purchase that off of me yeah so
the the ideas from this there's kind of
a long history of economic thought
around like it probably started with
Henry George and land taxes but uh the
most recent iteration is radical
Exchange in the book radical markets and
the first chapter in that is about they
at the time they called it a cost system
I can't actually remember what the
acronym stood for because they've got
under a few of them but Glenn wild
radical exchange that was one of the
ideas that helped spur the Geo web and
so this partial common ownership system
or harburger tax is another name for it
the game theory is that you should be
honest about your self-assess evaluation
of the parcel and it sounds kind of
cheesy but I also think it's pretty cool
to like most markets it's all about
protecting information and trying to
pull one over on someone it's a
beautiful thing for it to just be a
simple be honest and like that's the
dominant Game Theory be honest about
your valuation and then you've got to go
like earn your money on top of it we
understand that there needs to be
incentives to grow and to build and
invest and I we are just really excited
about this idea there's a lot of people
vitalik's written about it it's been
kind of simmering in the blockchain
space for a while and there's a large
group of our growing group of people
that we talked to about Archer common
ownership and harbor taxes all the time
but we're excited to put it the Geo web
I think will probably be the largest
experiment of a harburger tax system
ever so uh it'll be great to have that
all that data be open and see see it in
practice theory and practice are always
there's some tension there so there are
different modifications to the system
that you can tweak and to make it work
how you want it to and so that's where
governance of the geoeb comes in we've
set out we've put a lot of thought into
the first implementation but there can
be tweaks along the way to produce the
results we want that's such a
fascinating concept so I understand from
like the game theory perspective how to
keep people honest in the valuations of
their land but how do I as a parcel
owner derive some sort of yield from
owning this parcel the yields to me
sounds like a passive income right and I
think part of it is a lot of crypto has
been passive right it you buy a coin it
goes up you didn't have to do anything
I'm the type of person that skeptical of
easy money and that sort of thing and so
what it comes down to is you need to use
it and in your home you don't need
necessarily a cash flow right you don't
get cash flow for paying for Netflix
right it's because you you valued it
you're gaining value by watching it if
you don't watch it enough then maybe you
cancel your subscription on the geoweb
same sort of thing there can be that
intangible value gained by by using it
doing whatever obviously we want to
expand that value so we'll be trying to
create games experiences that people can
use in their homes but then as a
business owner why do bars pay for
Sunday Ticket to bring people in so they
buy more beer wings and burgers and so
so I think it'd be pretty cool if I
walked into a bar and they're like yeah
we have augmented reality everywhere
just tune in to this channel basically
and that can end up earning them more
patrons and more Revenue that way and so
there could end up being more like
transactional things that are happening
on the geoweb I think there's a few
extra hurdles there Beyond like security
and and all that sort of stuff people
getting across level that the owner of
this parcel is actually the physical
establishment owner and there's like
some reputational things that we're
aware of and want to work through but
you can create value through
entertainment basically to start at
least and that can have a real dollar
value would like a simple example be if
I go to seed stock I would pay like .001
East to open up an image on the wall or
to participate in some sort of I don't
know like online event that they're
offering is that like a way that we can
start to kind of like conceptualize how
to derive like an active stream of
income from utilizing geoweb yeah as you
start to get to more so I was talking
about kind of the off chain income
that's possible but definitely on chain
as as possible too and it could be seed
stock doing that I think think of like
museums or like art exhibits like that
sort of thing like if you put an art
exhibit in a public park that's all
augmented reality but you can only see
it if you pay admission maybe that works
I don't know part of our vision is
obviously for this to be open and let
anyone do anything and some great things
that can happen obviously we're not
Pollyanna totally there will be
filtering of content but it's user
controlled but I guess the the point
where I wanted to go was that we have a
long way to go most people don't have
Smart classes yet we don't know where
this thing can go we have an idea that
it's trending in this direction and I
think there's lots of good evidence for
that and a lot of the early business
models will probably be simple maybe
they'll be more off chain that sort of
thing they'll replicate existing
business models but after we build up
some more knowledge and experience
someone out there are some brilliant
creative person will come up with new
business models and new ideas that are
uniquely enabled by the type of
technology and the the experiences that
we can offer very cool and when you're
saying like an off-chain model could you
just give me like a super simple example
of what you're talking about like is
this as simple as seed stock Brewery
supports geoweb so that would be a
reason to come check out our Brewery
yeah yeah exactly it's basically to that
to a business you don't care well maybe
you do care if you get paid eight
dollars or whatever but the idea is it
all flows to the income statement and so
you can invest in things that maybe
support a different business Channel and
see where it goes very cool and you
mentioned that there's going to be this
it's it's a stream a second or a daily
stream that you pay but annually there's
a 10 fee for uh what I'll just refer to
as holding on to this parcel what
happens with that fee is it distributed
back into the platform does it go to
geoweb what's the way in which those
fees are distributed throughout the
platform could you just share a little
bit more about that yeah so there's
multiple reasons why we think that this
can work and it is about psychology and
understanding people like when we put
out this platform people are going to be
like well I own the physical land why
don't I just get the digital land like I
shouldn't have to pay right like that's
a natural reaction that's just how
humans are wired you feel entitled we
don't think there's actually a feasible
way for that to actually happen like if
you want to work with governments to
spin up a system that's going to match I
don't know if you know how like property
rights in the United States it's like at
a county clerk's office a lot of times
paper like we're talking about like
years of I.T migration to get to some
sort of digital representation that
that's accurate to what the government
says is real so that's we think not too
practical but our first Common ownership
at least acknowledges that like there is
probably someone who's better
suited to be the owner it's not just
purely like whoever was first or whoever
bought it in the the first auction the
mechanism is balanced but ultimately if
we are collecting those Network fees we
being like the founding team and using
that to line our pockets I think that
totally undercuts the legitimacy of what
we're trying to do because then it is
really unfair we're the landlord for the
world because we decreed it and so those
funds don't go to us uh they are the
Publix funds so we're excited to see the
different ways that those can be used to
start with to limit administrative
overhead and governance tools that
aren't yet mature basically it's kind of
going back to our Bitcoin Roots those
funds will be allocated to matching
rounds to the matching pool for
quadratic funding grounds who gets
included in those rounds and who can be
it'll they'll have to be public goods
projects open source we as a team will
likely participate in those rounds we
won't allocate it to ourselves but if
people choose to give to us just like
they have in Bitcoin grants over many
many rounds if people choose to give to
us then we'll have earned some
allocation of those those Network fees
but it's not by decree from us we want
to expand that out to all the different
people building public goods projects
and great things that we can all share
because the idea is public goods open
source we can't exclude anyone so it
truly is like an investment that we all
benefit from will the fees be used you
mentioned quadratic funding will they be
used for geoweb oriented projects or are
you also talking about redistributing
them back into git coin we would be
running our own rounds Geo web specific
rounds at least to start I think just
practically speaking like yeah we get we
have big big eyes and Visions for what's
possible but practically speaking we're
still small there's still a lot of work
to do and so having the the focus impact
of maybe a smaller funding scope on
things that are directly related to the
core protocol and in supplement sold
stuff but as it grows one of the things
this starts looking like is opt-in
government system it's like a co-op that
we're all putting money into and we're
investing in things and so there's no
reason that that needs to be limited to
just Geo web stuff it could end up being
paid back as like directly to users in
the Ubi that's mentioned a lot of times
as like the most Fair way to distribute
funds from a partial common ownership
system but the the governance experience
and experiments will be interesting and
we have ideas but as we get more people
involved the more voices the better as
we try to chart this path I used to work
in the zoning and permitting office for
Jefferson County so I'm very well
familiar with how outdated land
ownership systems are at the county
level everything was basically just
scanned documents put into some sort of
database and easily 25 plus years out of
date the technology so I'm very
interested to see how these new
processes and these new networks can be
used to improve existing and outdated
processes you kind of touched on this a
little bit when you were speaking
earlier but what what if there's a
conflict between a land owner and the
somebody who purchased that parcel of
land in the digital land registry yeah
and so it's definitely an unsettled bit
of law there was like there is some
precedent with like Pokemon go and
putting like uh high value characters in
places and that creating real world
movement of people towards that and that
can be a problem and I guess there's not
really clean answers we're figuring it
out we're trying to be responsible But
ultimately one of the the main things
that we want to do is we don't control
the registry we can't just remove people
so part of it is decentralizing these
things we truly believe in like the
lowest level Protocols of our our
society need to be credibly neutral we
need to not be changed by the whims of
other people like like the internet as
you get further up in the stack it's
appropriate to be pragmatic if I don't
want to see content I shouldn't have to
see content like you can't just force it
on me and so what we believe that
there's part of the design at the lowest
level protocols is is exposing
information for people to make informed
decisions about what they do and don't
want to see people will create their own
algorithms their own whatever and so in
our world we have the digital land
registry and that's more or less
decentralized no one can change what's
there but the way you interact with that
is what we call a spatial browser you
saw the first one that we built at seed
stock but we don't have a monopoly on
that we want lots of spatial browsers to
be built think of it like the web
browser Chrome unfortunate that has like
a large portion but there's Brave
there's chromium based and Firefox and
Internet Explorer Internet Edge whatever
it is but ghost can compete and in our
world if we expose the right information
each one of those browsers can offer
their customers different experiences
and hopefully ones that are have like a
strong input from the user of like I
only want to see
stuff from Publishers Above This
reputation score or whatever whatever
that is we also think like the type of
content we can start to enforce things
like you have to trying to figure out
like crypto economic ways to get people
to be honest about like am I showing an
ad or am I showing a piece of
entertainment and sometimes the line is
blurry but there are I think different
categories of content you could start to
enforce and if a publisher is not honest
about it's clearly an ad and they said
it was educational material and
therefore like their reputation goes
down we want to try to create those
sorts of things to minimize the negative
impacts that like could pop up between a
physical land owner and a hypothetical
digital one very cool and when I
purchase a plot of land where is that
information stored is it stored on chain
is it stored in ipfs what's kind of the
back end solution look like for that yep
it's all Unchained at least for the
registry so the digital land registering
we actually use a Smart contract pattern
called diamonds it's like a multi-facet
proxy system there's a lot going on in
our contracts and we have been working
on this a while but basically it's it's
like a 7.1 nft it is a 721 ft with some
modifications about how it's transferred
mostly and then there's some metadata
Associated to it of where in the world
is this we actually created a grid
system a custom grid system that's
really easy to I I guess it's it's
optimized for evm storage and uh
confirmation that parcel doesn't
intersect so the easiest way to think of
it it's like a 721 nft that says I'm the
owner of this land parcel here's what
that actually means here's the shape of
where that is in the world the content
is linked to ipfs in another protocol
called ceramic and so content isn't as
like Mission critical and so we thought
it made a lot of sense to move that off
chain but still use web3 technology to
make sure that it's peer-to-peer in the
long run and there's also just other
philosophical things there but your nft
plus your wallet creates like basically
a unique ID that can be used over and
over for the tree of content that you
want to link to it yeah by the way it
sounds as you just described it's not
necessarily tons of of information
that's getting stored on chain but
mostly just like geo-reference
coordinates and an identity and then
just metadata pointing towards a
representation on the internet so it's
not like we're storing like uh one
megabyte image per parcel that will just
eat up chain data something that's
really cool when when you're purchasing
plots of land as it stands right now you
can like select one square and then kind
of like highlight and drag and there's
multiple squares so maybe like Empower
Stadium
will have like I don't know maybe 100
squares so does this open up an
opportunity for people to own different
Parcels of a stadium and then can they
collaborate through some sort of
governance mechanism have you guys kind
of run any like mental tests on that yet
yeah ownership models are going to be
interesting in general there's
definitely like at the base layer we
just in address owns a parcel that could
be a dow that could be a multi-sig that
could be like any group of people that
are collaborating and you could build
smart contracts that maybe because our
Parcels are just two-dimensional adding
a third dimension to basically slice up
the world if you're in like a high-rise
building or something like that that can
be a separate smart contract that's kind
of like our layer too in Practical the
limitations on land parcel claims are
kind of twofold there's some technical
reasons and then there's also some like
Market reasons that we limited basically
only claims to rectangles so far we did
want people to be able to roughly to
claim their because like the world is
irregular and there's all sorts of
different sizes and so we didn't want to
just do like you can buy this hexagon
and this hexagon we wanted it to be a
cohesive thing but if it was totally
user-defined naturally like we need to
think adversarial people are going to
claim like a snake or something or emote
around a thing and just like all sorts
of things that that creates friction in
the market where the parcels don't like
if you had two parcels and one of them
is like the moat around it like I you
could just start to manipulate the
market in your favor as a squatter and
so we wanted to keep it simple and also
like we're using a full web3 stack each
one of those coordinate grids squares is
I believe it's about 20 square meters
right now at the Equator so large a
parcel of like the size of the Broncos
stadium is like thousands of parcels and
if you had to query each one of those
through we use the graph it's actually
and we used to do that and it was just
really slow and painful but you can
define a square much easier than like a
series of a thousand squares and so
those are kind of the reasons we do
think that it'll evolve over time the
holy grail for us is long term is like
arbitrary polygons being drawn there's
some cool groups that we've gotten to
know in the space that are working on
ways to do that it's just not there yet
our contracts are upgradable and so by
doing it as squares or rectangles first
not squares that provides us an easier
transition to polygons because
rectangles are polygons and it's a lot
easier to to define those cool so by the
time people hear this episode The
auctioning process will be live what are
some other things on the roadmap that
you're really excited about yeah once
once we get the plan platform live and
that's been a long haul the Dutch
auction is going to start at 100 East
and it's going to count down to .0058
over a month and so by early next year
the goeb will be fully open gates open
people will be able to claim a parcel of
land for less than the domain name and
then pay basically like 50 cents a year
to maintain it if you're at that minimum
price and so from there we we really
want to start building on top of that we
want to see the artists the creators the
entrepreneurs that want to build things
we're internally going to be building a
whole bunch of those things those will
bubble up into our interface for
claiming because you need a way to
publish the use cases and then also our
spatial browser go beyond just simple
like point-and-place augmented reality
so it's all about the use cases and
hopefully we'll also be able to get some
public goods funding going and really
create a cool open ecosystem well Graven
congratulations editions on the looming
launch after two years of hard work I
remember chatting with you a year ago it
sounded like this was still so far off
into the future and here we are this
week you guys finally launch so if
people want to keep up to date with you
or to keep up with geoweb what are the
best ways for people to follow along
either with yours or geoweb socials or
just the website or or whatever way to
keep in contact yeah we on Twitter we
are the Geo web not Geo web so at the
geoeb and then our our website is
geoweb.network that's the landing page
sort of stuff all that sort of stuff but
you'll also find links to all the other
good good things out there so definitely
check that out looking forward to
connecting hopefully with a lot of
people and new builders in the New Year
fantastic uh fascinating conversation
thank you so much for coming onto the
smart economy podcast to kind of share a
lot of the great work that's gone into
geoweb it was a pleasure to chat with
you and I look forward to you uh sharing
some beers next time I run into you at a
crypto riddle Meetup sounds great thank
you Dylan it was fun talking with you
cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
I found the philosophy about sharing
information as freely as it is currently
amongst people on the Internet by tying
it to specific physical locations to be
really intriguing it was also really
cool to hear about how the team intends
to redistribute its 10 percent fees for
owning geoweb Parcels back into the
ecosystem through grants distribution
rounds and it was just really cool to
hear about the game theory and pricing
Parcels if it's lowly valued it'll get
sold really quickly if it's too highly
valued the yearly fees will be kind of
ridiculous but ultimately the dominant
game theory is to just be honest on that
note I want to thank you so much for
taking the time to listen to the smart
economy podcast if you liked what you
heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
[Music]